Docker is a development platform and a virtualization technology.
Apps run the same way no matter where they are.

Containers usually run one specific task each, such as a mySQL database, or
a node.js application. They may be stored together and potentially scale. 

Docker is a form of virtualization but the resources are shared directly
with the host. 
VM allocates the resources and builds a fake hardware and communicates with 
a host operating system via a Hypervisor. But Docker communicates natively 
with the system kernel bypassing the middle man on linux machines and 
windows 10. This means that we cun run any version of linux in the 
container and it will run natively. Docker uses less space too. It reuses 
files efficiently by using layered filesystem. 

Dockerfile can be built into a docker image that can be run as a docker 
container. Dockerfile instructs how a docker image will be built, like 
a blueprint. 
We first select a base image to start from using a FROM keyword. 
    FROM ubuntu: 16.04
from there we can run commands such as download, install and run your 
software. 
    RUN echo "Thanks for watching!"

Once the dockerfile is complete we can build it using docker build followed 
by the t-flag so we can name our image and pass the location of the docker 
file.
    docker build -t myDockerImage.
Once comlete we can verify the existence of our images by running 
    docker images

We can use a pre-made docker image from the docker hub using   
    docker pull ubuntu:16.04

If you don't specify the tag it will fetch the latest version.

To run a container - pull it down from the docker hub or build the image 
and then run followed by the image name.
    docker run myDockerImage
And there are many options available for running the containers such as 
running it in the detached mode.
    docker run -d -p 80:80 image service myapp

We can view our running docker container with 
    docker container ls

Running a single container is fun but it is annoying to enter all this 
commands to get a container running and we may want to control several 
containers that constitute an application. And this is going to be 
accomplished with dockere compose. 